# Building a resource server in PHP

This article is part of a series describing how to implement a resource server
in PHP.

1. Introduction
2. Resource Server
3. Authorization
4. Authentication
5. Security considerations

## Part 1: Introduction

Today on the web,  everything is about connectivity. Your data and documents
live in one service, your photos and videos in another, and your social media
and messages in a third.

Yet all these services talk to each other and work together.

To make this possible, standards have evolved. These standards tell software
developers _what_ to build and _how_ to build it, so other applications can use
their software in a predictable manner.

Any time you access your data or when you use service "X" to log into service
"Y", you've been using these standards, although you might not have been aware
of it at the time.

The great thing about such standards is that it can lead to standardized
implementations.

Instead of everyone having to build their own, a common implementation can exist,
built and supported by a whole community of developers.

When applications or services talk to each other, without you being involved,
they also use these standards. The means through which apps, clients, and
servers communicate is called an "Application Programming Interface" or API.

Such an API allows one service to request a specific resource from another.

A resource can be any kind of data: a document, message, photo, or video. It can
also be information about a user or their account on a service.

With all those services exchanging messages and resource, security is very
important. You don't want your data exposed to parties that should not have access, only to applications you have given permission to.

When we talk about security, two topics are relevant:

- **Authentication**: Who are you? How can you prove this?
- **Authorization**:  What permissions do you have? What are you allowed to access?

As can be expected, security standards have also been created. One of the common
standard for authorization is OAuth 2.0 (or "OAuth2"). A common standard for
authentication, built on top of OAuth2, is OpenID Connect (or OIDC).

Using these standards, services have a way of identifying themselves, so what
they are allowed to do or see they can  be validated .

In this back-and-forth of data, four parties are involved:

1. a **User** or _"Resource Owner"_<br/>
   This is the person who the resource belongs to. They can give others access
   to (parts of) their account or to resources they own.

2. a **Resource Server** or _"API"_<br/>
   This is a place where the user's resources live. The server exposes resources
   through an API other servers or clients can talk to.

3. an **Authorization Server**<br/>
   This is the interface where the user can give an application permission to
   access a resource. This _can_ be the same server where the API lives but
   doesn't _have_ to be.

4. a **Client** or _"Application"_<br/>
   This an application that wants to access a user's resource or account on the
   Resource Server. For this it needs to use the Authorization Server to get
   permission from the User.

These names and terms are also used in various standards.

Now, lets say we have some resources we want to expose through one or more APIs.

We know who is involved, what they need (resources, security) and which
standards we could use.

How would such an implementation work?

The follow-up articles explain how you could create a Authorization and Resource
Server yourself, using the experience I gained working at [PDS Interop](https://pdsinterop.org),
implementing the standards that define a [Solid Server](solidproject.org/).

If you want to read along in the code, an example combining a client application,
an authorization server, and a resource server can be found at https://github/pdsinterop/oauth-example

In the example, each service lives on the same server, but under their own URL:

- `https://server/oauth2` for authorization
- `https://server/client` for the client application
- `https://server/resource` for resources

For a real-world application, these would probably all be separate servers.

Next, part 2: creating a Resource Server
