# Building a resource server in PHP

This article is part of a series describing how to implement a resource server
in PHP.

1. Introduction
2. Resource Server
3. Authorization
4. Authentication
5. Security considerations

## Part 3: Authorization

Authorization: Obtaining an access token 

When building an Authorization Server in PHP, a common implementation that can
be used is https://oauth2.thephpleague.com/

The code examples in this article come from https://github/pdsinterop/oauth-example

If you feel more comfortable looking at implementations for a specific framework
in order to understand how all of this works, take a look at one of these 
integrations:

- [CakePHP 3](https://github.com/uafrica/oauth-server)
- [Drupal](https://www.drupal.org/project/simple_oauth)
- [OAuth 2 Server for Mezzio](https://github.com/mezzio/mezzio-authentication-oauth2)
- [Laravel Passport (Official)](https://laravel.com/docs/passport)
- [Nette Framework](https://github.com/lookyman/nette-oauth2-server)
- [Phalcon Framework](https://github.com/tegaphilip/padlock)
- Slim (or any PSR7-supporting framework) - See the examples in the PHP League OAuth client repository
- [Symfony](https://github.com/trikoder/oauth2-bundle)

## Authorization Code Flow

Using OAuth2, an authorization code can be retrieved from the Authorization Server.

- - - 

The flow illustrated in Figure 3 includes the following steps:

1.  (A)  The client initiates the flow by directing the resource owner's
    user-agent to the authorization endpoint. 

    The client includes its client identifier, requested scope, local state, 
    and a redirection URI to which the authorization server will send the
    user-agent back once access is granted (or denied).

2.  (B)  The authorization server authenticates the resource owner (via
    the user-agent) and establishes whether the resource owner
    grants or denies the client's access request.

3.  (C)  Assuming the resource owner grants access, the authorization
    server redirects the user-agent back to the client using the
    redirection URI provided earlier (in the request or during
    client registration).  The redirection URI includes an
    authorization code and any local state provided by the client
    earlier.

4.  (D)  The client requests an access token from the authorization
    server's token endpoint by including the authorization code
    received in the previous step.  When making the request, the
    client authenticates with the authorization server.  The client
    includes the redirection URI used to obtain the authorization
    code for verification.

5.  (E)  The authorization server authenticates the client, validates the
    authorization code, and ensures that the redirection URI
    received matches the URI used to redirect the client in
    step (C).  If valid, the authorization server responds back with
    an access token and, optionally, a refresh token.

## Scope

As mentioned in [Part 1](#) "authorization" is about access and permissions.

The key with which a client can ask an authorization server which permissions it
has received from a user is "scope".

The contents of the scope will be different for each authorization server, but
the mechanism is part of the OAuth2 standard.

By using scope, you can have fine-grained control over what resources an 
application has access to, or what it is allowed to do with certain resources.

If you've ever connected an application (with Facebook, GitHub, Google, Twitter,
etc) this will sound familiar. The "... wants to access your account" screen
is where an application asks you for access to specific scopes.

    TK: Add screenshot of one (or several) of these screens.

## Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)

Under certain circumstance the OAuth 2.0 authorization code grant is susceptible
to an interception attack.

One way to prevent such an attack is by implementing PKCE. To quote from the RFC:

> To mitigate this attack, this extension utilizes a dynamically created
> cryptographically random key called "code verifier". 
>
> A unique code verifier is created for every authorization request, and its 
> transformed value, called "code challenge", is sent to the authorization 
> server to obtain the authorization code.
>
> The authorization code obtained is then sent to the token endpoint with the 
> "code verifier", and the server compares it with the previously received 
> request code so that it can perform the proof of possession of the "code 
> verifier" by the client.
>
> This works as the mitigation since the attacker would not know this one-time 
> key, since it is sent over TLS and cannot be intercepted.

What this comes down to in practice is that the Client and Server need to add
extra parameters when making the OAuth2 requests and responses.

```php
<?php

$verifier_bytes = random_bytes(64);

$code_verifier = strtr(rtrim(base64_encode($verifier_bytes), '='), '+/', '-_');

$challenge_bytes = hash('sha256', $code_verifier, true);

$code_challenge = strtr(rtrim(base64_encode($challenge_bytes), '='),'+/', '-_');
```

### Access request

When making the OAuth2 request, besides the `client_identifier`, `redirect_uri`, 
`scope`, and `state` we have seen in the Authorization Code Flow Ⓐ, two extra
parameters need to be added:

- `code_challenge` Code challenge.
- `code_challenge_method` Code verifier transformation method "S256"

### Redirect response 

When the server responds with an `authorization_code`, `redirect_uri`, and
`state` (as in Authorization Code Flow Ⓒ), it stores the `code_challenge` and 
`code_challenge_method` it received together with the `authorization code` it 
handed out, so they can be verified later.

This can be done by storing the data in the server or by sending an encrypted
version of the challenge back to the client as `code`.

<!--
    Typically, the "code_challenge" and "code_challenge_method" values
    are stored in encrypted form in the "code" itself but could
    alternatively be stored on the server associated with the code.  The
    server MUST NOT include the "code_challenge" value in client requests
    in a form that other entities can extract.
-->

### Ⓓ Requests an access token

When the client requests an access token, sending the `authorization_code` and 
`redirect_uri` (as in Authorization Code Flow Ⓓ), it must also add the 
`code_verifier`.

The `code_challenge_method` is bound to the Authorization Code when the Authorization Code is issued.

That is the method that the token endpoint MUST use to verify the "code_verifier".

### Access token response

Before it can return an access token (as in Authorization Code Flow Ⓔ), the
server needs to verify the request.

This is done by using the method specified in the `code_challenge_method` on the
`code_verifier` and comparing the outcome with the previously associated 
`code_challenge`.

If they match the Authorization Code Flow can be completed as usual, returning 
an access token (and optionally a Refresh Token).

## Resource Owner information

Information about the resource owner of a given access token.
